# Static Members
```c++
struct Student {
    ...
    mutable int numMethodCalls = 0;
    ...
    float grade() const {
        ++numMethodCalls;
        return ...;
    }
    Student s{...};
    Student b{...};
    s.grade();
    b.grade();
    s.grade();
}
```
The count `numMethdoCalls` is for a particular object. Hard to keep track of all method calls across all `Student` objects this way. What if we want to keep track of how many `Student` objects are created.

What we want is a variable assocaited with the class itself, not a particular instance of that class (object). Static members are exactly that.
```c++
struct Student {
    static int numInstances;
    Student(int assns, int mt, int final) : ... {
        ++numInstances;
    }
}
```

```c++
// student.cc
int Student::numInstance = 0;
```
`static` fields must be initailized outside the class, `static` member functions don't depend on a specific instance for their computation, (They do not have an implicit `this` parameter, thus they can only access `static` fields and can only call other static members)

```c++
struct Student {
    ...
    static void howMany() {
        cout << numInstances << endl;
    }
}

Student Billy{ 60, 70, 80 };
Student Yei{ 50, 80, 90 };

Student::howMany(); // 2
Yei.howMany()l // 2
```

```c++
struct Foo {
    static int x;
    void doSomething() const {
        ++x;
        cout << "Hello" << endl;
    }
};

int Foo::x = 0;

int main() {
    Foo f;
    f.doSomething();
}
```
Changing a static field is not changing the object, hence can change a `static` field in a `const` method (`const` promises that the `this` pointer is const)

## Input and Output Operator (`>>`, `<<`)
```c++
class Vec {
    int x, y;
    public:
        ...
        int getX() const { return x; } // assessor (getter)
        int setY(int z) { y = z; }; // mutator (setter)
};
```
Providing assess to private fields can be done through assessor/mutator methods when appropriate. These methods can include code to check/maintain invariants. 

What about input/output operators? 
Whyd do we not declare input/output operators as class members: whenever you declare a method in the class, the first operand is the object, whereas for overloading operators, first operand should be the strema,

Those opertators shouldn't be members because the first operand shouldn't be the object, so, we can declare `friend` functions.
```c++
class Vec {
    ...
    friend std::ostream & operator<<(std::ostream &, Vec &);
};

ostream & operator<<(std::ostream & out, Vec & v) {
    return out << v.x << ", " << v.y;
}
```

If you already have all the getter and setter methods that you need to write I/O operators, then you don't need to declare it as a friend, but don't add getter and setters just for the I/O opertors because then everyone can access them, not just the I/O operator.

## System Modelling
Visualize the structure of a system (abstractions and the relationship among them) to aid in design and implementation 

Popular standard UML class diagrams (Unified Modelling Language)

### Modelling a Class UML
...(1)

### Relationship: Composition of classes
```c++
class Vec {
    int x, y;
    public: 
    Vec(int x, int y): x{x}, y{y}{}
};
```

Two vectors define a basis: 
```c++
class Basis {
    Vec v1, v2;
};

Basis b; // Error 
// can't default construct v1 and v2
```
The built in default constructor for `Basis` tries to default construct `v1` and `v2`, no such `Vec::Vec()` constructor exists, so we can write our own that explicitly initializes them.

```c++
class Basis {
    Vec v1, v2;
    public:
        Basis(): v1{1, 0}, v2{0, 1}{}
        // invokes constructors on v1 and v2 - MUST BE DONE IN MIL - remember by time constructor body run fields are initaialized
}
```
Embedding objects (e.g `v1` and `v2`) within another (e.g `b`) is a *composition relationship*. 
> *Relationship*: a `basis` object "owns-a" `Vec` object (in fact it owns two)

If A "owns-a" B, then typically:
- B has no identity outside of A (no independent existence)
- If A is destroyed, then B is destroyed 
- If A is copied them B is copied (e.g a deep copy)

Composition is typically implemented through embedding objects within one another or through a pointer of which ownership.

...(2)

- The 2 says: "Each basis owns exactly 2 vecs"
- The 1 says: "Each vec is owned by exactly one basis"

### Relationship: Aggregation
> Students in a course, courses have students, but students have an independent existance outside of the course

This is a "has-a" (aggregation) relationship

If A "has-a" B, then typically:
- B exists apart from its association from it 
- If A is destroyed, B lives on
- If A is copied, B is not (shallow copy) - copies of A, share the same B

Example: parts of a catalogue

Modelling 
... (3)

Typical implementation of an aggreggation relationship is through a *non-owning pointer or reference* 

*e.g* 
```c++
class Catalogue {
    Part * parts[500];
    ...
    public:
        ~Catalogue() {// don't delete the parts}
};
```

### Relationship: Specialization
Suppose you want to track your collection of books 
```c++
class Book {
    string title, author;
    int length;
    public: 
        Book(...);
        ...
};
```

For textbooks, we also want to know the topic.
```c++
class Text {
    string title, author;
    int length;
    string topic;
    public:
        Text(...);
}
```