Consider the `Xwindow` class. 
```c++
class Xwindow {
    Display *d;
    Window w;
    int s;
    GC gc;
    unsigned long colours[10];
    ...
};
```

What if we add or change a private member? All client code must recompile. Would be better to hide these details away.

Solution - use the pointer to implementation (pImpl) idiom.

```c++
// windowImpl.h
#include <x11/xlib.h>
struct XwindowImpl {
    Display *d;
    Window w;
    int s;
    Gc gc;
    unsigned long colours[10];
};

// window.h
class XWindowImpl; // only need to FORWARD DECLARE

class XWindow {
    XwindowImpl *p;
    public:
        ... // no change
}

// window.cc
#include "window.h"
#include "windowImpl.h"
XWindow::xwindow(...): p{new XWindowImple{...}}{}
```

All other methods just change field accesses from `d, w, s, etc.` to `p->d, p->w, p->s, etc.`

If you confine all private fields within an implementation struct, then your actual class never needs to change size and change to the private data mean only your class, not client code needs to recompile.

# Measures of Design Quality

## Coupling and Cohesion
***Coupling***: how much distinct program modules depend on each other
- (low): modules communicate via function calls with basic params and results
- modules pass arrays/structs backa and forth
- modules affect each others control flow
- modules share global data
- (high): modules have access to each other's implementation (`friend`s) 

*High coupling*:
- changes to one modules require greater changes to coupled modules
- harder to reuse individual modules

***Cohesion***: how closely elements of a module are related to one another (how focused are your modules)
- (low) arbitraty grouping of unrelated elements (e.g `<utility>`)
- elements share a common theme, otherwise unrelated, share some base code (e.g `<algorithm>`)
- elements manipulation state over the lifetime of an object (eg. open/read/close files)
- (high): elements cooperate to perform exactly one task

*Low cohesion*:
- poorly organized code
- hard to understand/maintain 

**We want LOW COUPLING and HIGH COHESION**

*Example:*
```c++
class ChessBoard {
    ...
    cout << "Your Move!" << endl;
    ...
}
```

This is base design; it inhibits code reuse. What if you want a chess board but don't want to commuicate via `std::out`? Could, pass in the stream you want to communicate through, but what if you don't want to communicate through text at all?

Your chessboard should not be handling communication at all. 

## Single Responsibility Principle
The single responsibility principle states that: 
> "A class should only have one reason to change"

Game logic and communication are two reasons. A chessboard should be a chessboard. A seperate display class can interact with the public interface to display the board. 

## Exception Safety
Consider:
```c++
void f() {
    int ** f(int s, int (*g)(int)) {
        int **p = new int*[s];
        for (int i = 0; i < s; ++i) {
            p[i] = new int{i};
            *p[i] = g(*p[i]);
        }
        return p;
    }
}
```

What happens if `g` or `new` throws?
- if the first `new` fails (creating the array fails), no problem
- but, if any of th inner `new`s or `g` raises an exception, our function immediately exits, any memory we've already allocated is leaked

```c++
int **f (int s, int (*g)(int)) {
    int **p = new int *[s];
    for (int i = 0; i < s; ++i) {
        try {
            p[i] = new int{i};
            *p[i] = g(*p[i]);
        } catch (...) {
            for (int j = 0; j < i; j++) {
                delete p[j];
            }
            delete [] p;
            throw;
        }
    }
}
```
We just saw its error prone because we still have a memory leak (if `g` fails, not `new`, we must free up to and including `i`, not just up until `i`)

Some languages have a `finally` clause, in which you write code guarenteed to run no matter how the funtion exits, not true in C++.

All C++ guarentees is that the destructors for stack allocated objects will run, so...

# C++ Idiom: RAII (Resource Aquisition is Initialization)

The RAII states: 
> You should only ever *aquire resources* as a result of *initializing* a stack allocated object whose job is to manage that resource

So, rewrite our example to follow RAII:

```c++
vector<unique_ptr<int>> f(int s, int (*g)(int)) {
    vector<unique_ptr<int>> v;
    for (int i = 0; i < s; ++i) {
        v.emplace_back(make_unique<int>(i));
        *v[i] = g(*v[i]);
        return v;
    }
}
```