...

Shared pointers maintain a reference count, count of all shared pointers pointing at the same object, the memory is freed when the reference count reaches 0.

```c++
{
    int *p = new int{5};
    shared_ptr<int> spr{p};
    if (...) {
        shared_ptr<int> sp2{p};
    }
} // double free
```

Use the pointer type that accurately reflects the ownership role. Dramatically fewer opportunities for leaks this way.

There are three levels of exception safety for some function f:
1. **Basic guarentee:** if this function throws or propogates an exception, the program will be in a valid, but unspecified state. Nothing is leaked, class invariants are maintained
2. **Strong Guarentee**: if this function throws or propogates an exception, the program will be as if the function was never called
3. **No-throw Guarentee**: this function wil never throw an exception and will always complete its task

```c++
class A{...}; // A::g offers strong guarentee
class B{...}; // B::h offers strong guarentee

class C{
    A a;
    B b;
    public :
        void f() {
            a.g();
            b.h();
        }
}
```

Is `c::f` exception safe? At best, it offers the basic guarentee: 
1. if `a.g()` throws, nothing happened yet, so okay.
2. if `b.g()` throws, the effects of `a.g()` must be undone to offer the strong guarentee, very hard or impossible if `a.g()` has non-local side effects.

If `A::g` and `B::h` do not have non-local side effects, we can use the copy-swap idiom.

```c++
class C {
    A a; B b;
    public:
        A atemp{a};
        B btemp{b};

        // if either of these throw, then nothing (from original a, b has changed)
        atemp.g();
        btemp.h(); 

        a = atemp;
        b = btemp; // may cause similar error as before
}
```

Because copy-assignment could throw, we don't yet have exception safety. It would be better if we could guarantee that the "swap" part of our copy swap idiom was a non-throwing operation - a non-throwing swap operation is at the heart of writing exception safe code. 

**Key observation**: copying pointers can't throw.

Solution: use the pImpl idiom

```c++
class cImpl {
    A a;
    B b;
};

class C {
    unique_ptr<cImpl> pImpl;
    public: 
        void f() {
            auto temp = make_unique<cImpl>(*pImpl);
            temp->a.g();
            temp->b.h();
            std::swap(pImpl, temp);
        }
}
```

On the other hand, if either `A::g` or `B::h` offer no exception safety guarentee, then in general, neither can `C::f`. If they have non-local side efefcts, it is much harder to offer guarentee for `C::f`. 

## Exception Safety and SIL Vectors
Vectors:
- Encapsulated a heap-allocated array
- Follow RAII - when a stack allocated vector goes out of scope, the internal heap, allocated array is freed

```c++
void f() {
    vector<my_class> v;
    ...
} // v goes out of scope, its array is freed, so the myclass objects atored in that array are destroyed, their destuctors run
```

But 

```c++
void g() {
    vector <my_class *> v;
    v.emplace_back(new MyClass());
    ...
} // v's destructor frees its array, the pointers in it are now gone without being freed, here is a memory leak
```

So, if you needed to free these pointers, would need to do it yourself, e.g:

```c++
for (auto &p : v) delete p;
```
Alternatively, 

```c++
void h() {
    vector <unique_ptr<my_class>> v;
    ...
} // array is freed, unique_ptrs within destroyed, their destructor frees the MyClass objects
```

Consider how `vector<T>::emplace_back` (or `push_back`) works:
- Offers the strong guarentee
- If the array is full, (i.e `size==cap`):
  - Allocates a new larger array
  - Adds the new element to this array
  - Copies the objects over from the old array (copy construction)
    - If copy constructor throws, destroy new larger array, old array still intact *strong guarantee
    - Else, delete old array

BUT copying is expensive if the old array is just going to be thrown array. Furthermore, how can we create a vector of unique_prts if they can't be copied?

Wouldn't *moving* objects from old array to new array be more efficient?
- Allocate new larger array
- Place new object in it 
- Move the objects over (move constructor)
- Delete the old array

The problem if we move: if the move constructor throws, then then `vector<T>::emplace_back` can bo longer offer the strong guarantee because the old array is no longer intact. BUT `emplace_back` promises the strong guarantee, so how does it work?

Therefore if the move constructor offers the non-throw guarentee, emplace_back will use the move constructor, otherwise it will use the copy constructor, while may be slower.

So, your move operations shoudl provide yje no-throw guarentee if possible you should indicate they do.

```c++
class MyClass {
    public:
        MyClass(MyClass &&other) noexcept {...}
        MyClass &operator=(MyClass && other) noexcept {...}
        ...
};
```

If you know a function will never throw or propogate an exception, declare it `noexcept`, facilitates optimization. At a minimum your classes swap and move operations should be non-throwing. 
